
===== PAGE 1 =====
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Ofﬁcial journal of the CIOMP 2047-7538
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41377-022-00894-6
www.nature.com/lsa
A R T I C L E
O p e n A c c e s s
End-to-end learning of 3D phase-only holograms
for holographic display
Liang Shi
1✉, Beichen Li1 and Wojciech Matusik1✉
Abstract
Computer-generated holography (CGH) provides volumetric control of coherent wavefront and is fundamental to
applications such as volumetric 3D displays, lithography, neural photostimulation, and optical/acoustic trapping.
Recently, deep learning-based methods emerged as promising computational paradigms for CGH synthesis that
overcome the quality-runtime tradeoff in conventional simulation/optimization-based methods. Yet, the quality of the
predicted hologram is intrinsically bounded by the dataset’s quality. Here we introduce a new hologram dataset, MIT-
CGH-4K-V2, that uses a layered depth image as a data-efﬁcient volumetric 3D input and a two-stage supervised
+unsupervised training protocol for direct synthesis of high-quality 3D phase-only holograms. The proposed system
also corrects vision aberration, allowing customization for end-users. We experimentally show photorealistic 3D
holographic projections and discuss relevant spatial light modulator calibration procedures. Our method runs in real-
time on a consumer GPU and 5 FPS on an iPhone 13 Pro, promising drastically enhanced performance for the
applications above.
Introduction
Computer-generated holography (CGH) is the method
of digitally generating holographic interference patterns1.
The interference patterns form a hologram that diffracts
the incident light and establishes 3D images in the free
space. This volumetric beam-shaping capability is critical
to applications such as neural photostimulation2,3, opti-
cal/acoustic trapping4,5, and 3D displays6,7. While the
ﬁrst two applications often merely require focusing tens
or hundreds of sparsely scattered 3D dots simultaneously,
this number grows to millions for the display application.
This imposes signiﬁcant algorithmic and computational
challenges in creating holographic video systems. Besides,
existing spatial light modulators add another layer of
complicacy by requiring an amplitude-only or a phase-
only hologram8.
Both challenges are traditionally tackled by physical
simulation with direct encoding or iterative optimization.
Simulation-based methods represent the scene in point
clouds9, light ﬁelds10,11, polygon meshes12,13, an RGB-D
image14, or a multi-layer image14,15, and numerically
simulate diffraction and interference using the angular
spectrum method16 or Kirchhoff/Fresnel diffraction. The
resulting complex hologram is directly converted to a
phase-only hologram via amplitude discarding, temporal
averaging, or the double phase method (and its var-
iants)6,14,17,18. These methods work for continuous 3D
scenes; however, the simulation step is typically time-
consuming and the encoding step either works unreli-
ably or requires manual tuning to ﬁnd the optimal ﬁl-
tering parameters to achieve artifact-free results with
minimal artiﬁcial blur. Alternatively, optimization-based
methods use phase retrieval techniques19 or (stochastic)
gradient descent20,21 to iteratively ﬁnd a phase-only
pattern whose propagated wavefront follows the target
amplitude distribution. While similarly time-consuming,
these methods may automatically discover phase-only
solutions superior to the simulation-based methods and
can be ﬂexibly modeled for other downstream tasks such
as static pupil expansion22, aberration correction23,24,
© The Author(s) 2022
OpenAccessThisarticleislicensedunderaCreativeCommonsAttribution4.0InternationalLicense,whichpermitsuse,sharing,adaptation,distributionandreproduction
in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if
changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If
material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain
permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Correspondence: Liang Shi (liangs@mit.edu) or
Wojciech Matusik (wojciech@mit.edu)
1Computer Science and Artiﬁcial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 32 Vassar St, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;

===== PAGE 2 =====
contrast
enhancement25,
and
bridging
discrepancy
between simulation and experiment26. Nevertheless,
high-quality results were only demonstrated for 2D and
multi-plane scenes27 instead of continuous 3D scenes
due to the high computational cost that scales linearly
with the depth resolution and the difﬁculty of specifying
defocus responses at depth-varying regions and occlu-
sion boundaries.
Recently, the differentiable nature of wave propagation
and the maturity of differentiable software infrastructures
has nurtured learning-based CGH algorithms that operate
and improve upon the previous two methods to address
the high computational cost. In particular, Deep-learning-
generated holography (DGH)28 and Tensor Holography
(TensorHolo)6 use simulation-based methods to synthe-
size a hologram dataset and employ supervised learning to
train a convolutional neural network (CNN) as an efﬁcient
neural proxy of the simulator. Conversely, 3D-DGH29,
DeepCGH3, and Neural Holography24,27 leverage unsu-
pervised training by only specifying the desired amplitude
at one or multiple depth planes and rely on the CNN itself
to discover the optimal phase-only holograms analogous
to the optimization-based methods. These networks
signiﬁcantly speed up the runtime, but they inherit
the remaining problems associated with their parent
methods. The employed 3D scene representations also
have intrinsic limitations in depicting the complete scene
geometry or providing high depth resolutions due to the
necessity of CNN compatibility. Speciﬁcally, TensorHolo
uses an RGB-D image, which only records the frontmost
surface points. The lack of wavefront diffracted from the
occluded points causes visible dark seams or brightness
attenuation at the background side of the occlusion
boundaries. In contrast, 3D-DGH and DeepCGH use a
voxel grid represented as a multi-channel RGB image to
accommodate occluded points; however, it becomes
extremely memory-inefﬁcient and computational-heavy
when an ultra-high depth resolution, effectively a con-
tinuous 3D volume, is desired (i.e., hundreds or thousands
of unique depth planes).
In this work, we propose a series of techniques to
resolve the challenges above. Our techniques include the
ﬁrst use of a layered depth image30 as a data-efﬁcient 3D
representation for hologram synthesis, a new hologram
dataset computed by the silhouette-mask layer-based
method15 with ultra-dense layer partition (10,000 layers)
to remove the remaining occlusion artifacts, a two-stage
supervised+unsupervised training protocol that combines
the beneﬁt of both simulation-based and optimization-
based methods, and a method to incorporate aberration
correction into the 3D hologram learning pipeline. The
resulting system, which we dubbed Tensor Holography
V2, can directly synthesize photorealistic 3D phase-only
holograms end-to-end without manual parameter tuning.
It is robust to different image statistics, depth misalign-
ment in real-world captured inputs, and different distance
conﬁgurations between the hologram plane and the 3D
volume. Besides, it can be customized for end-users with
different vision aberrations. We experimentally demon-
strate high image quality holographic 3D projection and
aberration correction results. We also discuss the novel
SLM calibration procedures used to achieve the demon-
strated results. Table 1 lists the acronyms frequently used
in this paper.
Results
Layered depth images and silhouette-mask layer-based
method
Occlusion modeling for 3D holograms is critical to the
perceived realism. This task has been approached at the
scene representation stage by rasterizing or ray-tracing an
RGB-D image (with a depth map) to only record the
frontmost visible surface14,31; rendering light ﬁelds to
further account for view-dependent effects11,32. It has also
been approached at the hologram computation stage via
ray casting for point-based methods33 and silhouettes for
FFT-based methods12,34. Both approaches are combined
to prune the computation of non-line-of-sight objects and
remove the wavefront of visible background objects
occluded by the foreground6. In “Methods”, we examine
the effectiveness of each approach and conclude that
although more time-consuming, performing occlusion
detection on the complete scene geometry is necessary to
produce a physically correct response. Common repre-
sentations that fully or largely serve this need include: (1)
general point clouds; (2) meshes; (3) voxel grids; (4) light
ﬁelds. Among them, general point clouds and meshes
are CNN-unfriendly due to their scene-dependent feature
lengths. Voxel grids operate in an explicit trade-off: the
memory cost increases linearly as the depth resolution
increases. Thus, it does not scale with high-resolution
input, and the CNN’s ﬁrst convolution layer bottlenecks
the performance due to a vast number of input channels.
For light ﬁelds, if pixels are treated as points11,35, it is
Table 1
Acronyms used in this paper
Acronyms
Phrase
LDI
Layered depth images30
SM-LBM
silhouette-mask layer-based method15
AA-DPM
anti-aliasing double phase method6
BL-DPM
band-limiting double phase method18
DDPM
deep double phase method
ASM
angular spectrum method16
TensorHolo
Tensor Holography6
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 2 of 18

===== PAGE 3 =====
inefﬁcient as one point can be recorded multiple times in
different views, and avoiding double-counting requires
duplication detection; alternatively, if pixels are treated as
rays32, generating high-quality sub-holograms will require
an extremely dense angular sampling rate.
Here, we advocate a layered depth image (LDI) as an
efﬁcient 3D scene representation. LDI is a classical image-
based rendering technique originally developed for novel
view synthesis30. Unlike an RGB-D image that stores a
single pixel at each spatial coordinate, it stores a sequence
of RGB-D images along the line of sight originating from
each spatial coordinate. Its ﬁrst pixel records the ﬁrst
front-facing surface intersecting with the line of sight, and
the second pixel records the second intersection assum-
ing the line of sight pierces through the scene, and so
forth till a maximum hit (layer) count is met (see Fig. 1a
for an illustration). LDI has several unique advantages for
holographic rendering applications. First, it is highly
conﬁgurable such that if only a single layer is rendered, an
LDI is equivalent to an RGB-D image; if all layers are
exhaustively rendered, it losslessly encodes the entire
scene for computing a physically correct hologram. In
either case or for a limited number of layers, any point in
the scene is only recorded once or discarded. Second,
unlike a voxel grid, an LDI records the exact depth for
every hit, decoupling the depth resolution with the
number of LDI layers. Third, the sequence of pixels is
recorded in a depth-sorted manner with wavefront from
further layers providing a diminishing contribution to the
hologram due to the occlusion of the frontal layers.
Consequently, we ﬁnd that a few LDI layers (i.e., 5) are
sufﬁcient to produce a close-to-ground-truth hologram,
and thus it is highly data-efﬁcient. Fourth, once the
number of layers is set, its feature length is ﬁxed and
independent of scene complexity; thus, it is CNN-
friendly. Finally, it can be efﬁciently rendered by the
existing real-time graphics pipeline via depth peeling (see
“Methods” for details).
To compute a 3D hologram from an LDI, ray casting can
be performed from each point’s belonging mesh at the
recorded 3D location. However, geometric occlusion for
diffraction calculation has been shown to cause minor
artifacts. Because runtime is ultimately unimportant for
dataset synthesis, we propose using the silhouette-mask
layer-based method15 (SM-LBM) with ultra-dense depth
partition to avoid the mixed-use of geometric and wave
optics models. SM-LBM was originally proposed to receive
a voxel grid input generated by slab-based rendering (see
Fig. 1b), which does not scale with increasing depth
resolution. Using SM-LBM with LDI is straightforward.
LDI-based rendering
3D volume
Points in the first layer
Points in the second layer
Points in the third layer
Front
Rear
Slab-based rendering
1 slab
a
c
Rendered LDI layers (left: RGB, right: depth)
b
virtual ray penetrating 
through the scene
Fig. 1 Comparison of LDI and voxel grid as 3D scene representation. a Rendering of an LDI records the intersections between a penetrating ray
(colored differently after every new hit) and the scene objects (front-facing surfaces) at every spatial location. b First three layers of the LDI rendered
for the scene in a. The number of valid pixels rapidly decreases as the index of the layer increases. c Rendering of a voxel grid that partitions the 3D
scene into equal-length slabs and generates one RGB image for each slab. The depth resolution is proportional to the number of slabs
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 3 of 18

===== PAGE 4 =====
Any non-zero pixel in an LDI deﬁnes a valid 3D point
before depth quantization. When the number of depth
layers N is determined, each point is projected to its
nearest plane, and a silhouette is set at the same spatial
location. Denote the complex amplitude distribution of the
Nth layer LN 2 CRx ´ Ry as
LN ¼ ANexp i 2πzN
λ


ð1Þ
here, zN is the signed distance from the Nth layer to the
hologram plane, where a negative distance denotes a layer
behind the hologram plane and vice versa, AN 2 RRx ´ Ry is
the amplitude of the layer, Rx, and Ry are the spatial
resolution along the x and y axis. The exponential term
deﬁnes the layer’s initial phase following Maimone et al.’s
formula to cause a smooth and roughly zero-mean phase
proﬁle at the hologram plane14. We use the angular
spectrum method to propagate LN to the location of
N−1th layer
CN1 ¼ ASM LN; dl
ð
Þ
¼ F 1 F LN
ð
Þ  exp i2πdl
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
λ2  μ2  v2
q




ð2Þ
where μ 2 RRx ´ Ry and υ 2 RRx ´ Ry are the spatial fre-
quencies along the x and y directions, dl is the layer
thickness (positive),  denotes Hadamard element-wise
product, F and F 1 are the 2D Fourier transform and
inverse Fourier transform operator. CN–1 is multiplied by
the binary silhouette mask at the N−1 layer
MN1 x; y
ð
Þ ¼
0; AN1ðx; yÞ > 0
1; AN1ðx; yÞ ¼ 0

ð3Þ
and the complex amplitude at the N−1 layer is updated by
adding the masked complex ﬁeld
LN1 ¼ CN1MN1 þ LN1
ð4Þ
Iterating this process until reaching the ﬁrst layer, the
ﬁnal complex hologram is obtained by propagating the
updated ﬁrst layer to the hologram plane.
We further augment SM-LBM with aberration correc-
tion at the cost of computational efﬁciency. Reconsider-
ing the forward propagation of Nth layer LN, we only
process the occlusion of the frontal layer without adding
their content, namely removing the second addition term
in Eq. (4). After processing the occlusion of all frontal
layers, we propagate the resulted wavefront back to the
starting location of LN to obtain an occlusion-processed
L′N. We then perform aberration correction in the
frequency domain
L0
NC ¼ F 1 FðL0
NÞ  ΦzN


ð5Þ
where ΦzN 2 CRx ´ Ry is a depth-dependent global aberra-
tion correction kernel in the Fourier domain. We detail
the process to obtain ΦzN, and an extension to model
depth-dependent spatially-varying aberration correction
in “Methods”. Finally, L0
NC is propagated to the target
hologram plane. This procedure is repeated indepen-
dently for the content at every discretized depth (i.e., from
layer 1 to N) and integrating the results of all procedures
at the target plane forms the ﬁnal hologram. Note that the
required
total
number
of
propagation
operations
increases to N2/2 compared with N in the standard SM-
LBM. This prevents N from being extremely high if
aberration correction is needed, but the computational
resource is limited.
MIT-CGH-4K-V2
SM-LBM and its aberration-correction variant are slow
due to sequential occlusion processing. To improve the
performance, we generate a new dataset with LDIs and
SM-LBM holograms and train a CNN to accelerate
inference. Generating this dataset requires setting three
critical parameters: the depth of the 3D volume, the
number of layers used by LDIs, and the number of layers
(depth resolution) used by SM-LBM.
We set the 3D volume depth to be 6 mm under colli-
mated illumination to facilitate quantitative comparison
with the publicly available TensorHolo V1 network6, and
similarly for the random scene conﬁguration. To deter-
mine the number of layers for LDIs, we compute the
mean peak signal to noise ratio (PSNR) and the mean
structure similarity index36 (SSIM) for the amplitude
maps of the holograms computed from LDIs with N ¼
1; 2;    ; 9 layers against the ones computed from LDIs
with N = 10 layers (after which we observe few valid
pixels) over 10 random scenes. The mean SSIM plateaus
after
N = 5
(see
Fig.
2a),
reﬂecting
a
diminishing
0
2
4
6
8
10
Number of LDI layers
20
30
40
50
60
a
b
PSNR (dB)
0.97
0.98
0.99
1.00
SSIM
32
128
512
2048
8192
Number of depth layers
for SM-LBM
20
40
60
PSNR (dB)
0.94
0.96
0.98
1.00
SSIM
Fig. 2 SM-LBM hologram quality as a function of LDI layers and
depth discretization. a The addition of more LDI layers provides
diminishing returns on the hologram ﬁdelity and the improvement
plateaus after 5 layers. b A depth resolution over 11 bits (2048) results
in a negligible difference in the image quality
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 4 of 18

===== PAGE 5 =====
improvement with more layers. Thus, we choose N = 5
for this work, but more layers can be used for higher
accuracy. Similarly, to determine the number of layers for
SM-LBM, we compute the holograms using 2Nd layers for
Nd = 5, 7, 9, and 11, and compare the mean PSNR and the
mean SSIM of these holograms against the ones com-
puted from Nd = 13 over 10 random scenes. The mean
SSIM plateaus after Nd = 11 (see Fig. 2b), indicating
negligible
improvement
for
the
3D
image
quality.
Nevertheless, we use a partition of 10,000 layers (13.28-bit
depth) as a showcase, which has not been demonstrated
previously. We rendered MIT-CGH-4K-V2, a new holo-
gram dataset with 4000 pairs of LDIs and holograms with
3800 for training, 100 for validation, and 100 for testing at
384 × 384 pixels similar to TensorHolo V1.
End-to-end learning of 3D phase-only hologram
In TensorHolo V1, the CNN directly maps the input
RGB-D image to the midpoint hologram, a wavefront
recording plane set to the center of the 3D volume that
minimizes the sub-hologram
width, and phase-only
encoding is performed separately using anti-aliasing
double phase encoding (AA-DPM). However, both AA-
DPM and an analogous band-limiting double phase
method (BL-DPM)18 require manual tuning to ﬁnd the
optimal low-pass ﬁltering parameters that produce an
artifacts-free image with the minimal artiﬁcial blur. For
video or live streaming inputs where manual tuning is
infeasible, highly conservative ﬁltering is required to keep
the entire sequence artifacts-free. Meanwhile, the low-
pass ﬁlterings in both methods are either spatially-
Input LDI
(or RGB-D)
Pre-encoding
focal stack
Target
focal stack
Pre-encoding
midpoint hologram
In-focus
object
Target midpoint
hologram
Residual block
Skip connection
(concatenation)
3×3 Conv
Batch Norm
ReLU
+
–
–
–
–
–
Fourier filter
Phase-only
3D hologram
IFFT
Free-space
propagation
Double phase
encoding
FFT
Post-encoding
focal stack
Post-encoding
target hologram
Post-encoding midpoint hologram
Free-space
propagation
Pre-encoding
target hologram
Pre-encoding target
hologram (CNN-filtered)
1st stage (supervised learning)
2nd stage (unsupervised learning)
zero mean
zero standard deviation
Fig. 3 Overview of the training procedure. In the ﬁrst stage, the CNN is trained to reproduce the ground truth midpoint hologram with direct
supervision and a dynamic focal stack loss. In the second stage, the CNN prediction is propagated to the target hologram plane, ﬁltered by a second
CNN, double phase encoded, Fourier ﬁltered, and back propagated to the center of the 3D volume to obtain the post-encoding midpoint hologram.
No ground truth phase-only hologram is provided, and the CNN is trained to discover an optimal solution with the dynamic focal stack loss between
the post-encoding focal stack and the target focal stack plus a regularization loss (see Eq. (11)). The Fourier space amplitude is visualized in the
logarithmic scale
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 5 of 18

===== PAGE 6 =====
invariant or frequency-invariant; thus they do not adapt to
the content and may incur unnecessary ﬁltering. In
addition, we observe the minimal ﬁltering strength of
both methods grows with the sub-hologram width, lead-
ing to degraded performance when the 3D frustum is
placed far against the hologram plane. In practice, this
limits the image quality when designing compact holo-
graphic near-eye displays, where it is ideal for reducing
the physical distance between the SLM and the eyepiece
by computationally shifting the 3D image tens of milli-
meters behind the hologram.
Although a CNN can be trained to directly predict an
unconstrained 3D phase-only hologram using unsu-
pervised learning by only forcing the focal stack to match
the one produced by the target complex hologram3,
ablation studies have shown that removing the super-
vision of ground truth complex hologram noticeably
degrades the image quality6 and enforcing the phase-only
constraint can only worsen the performance. Moreover,
direct synthesis of phase-only holograms prevents using
midpoint holograms to reduce computational costs since
learning an unconstrained midpoint phase-only hologram
does not guarantee a uniform amplitude at the target
hologram plane.
We propose a two-stage supervised+unsupervised
training to overcome these challenges (see Fig. 3 for
visualization). The key insight is to keep using the
double phase principle to perform phase-only encoding
for retaining the advantage of learning the midpoint
hologram while embedding the encoding process into
the end-to-end training pipeline and relegating the
CNNs to discover the optimal pre-encoding complex
hologram through unsupervised training. We detail the
training process below and refer to this neural phase-
only conversion method as the deep double phase
method (DDPM).
The ﬁrst stage supervised training is identical to Ten-
sorHolo V1 despite that we train two versions of CNNs
in V2. Both are trained to predict the target midpoint
hologram computed from the LDI input, but one receives
the full LDI, and the other receives only the ﬁrst layer of
the LDI, the same RGB-D input as the V1 network
receives. The latter CNN has an additional job of infer-
ring the occluded points close to the depth boundaries
and ﬁlling in their missing wavefront. It is particularly
useful for reducing the rendering overhead and repro-
ducing real-world scenes captured as RGB-D images,
where physically capturing a pixel-aligned LDI is nearly
impossible.
Once the CNN excels at this task, we initialize the
second stage unsupervised training by applying a chain of
operations to the network-predicted midpoint hologram
~Hmid ¼ ~Amidei~ϕmid. First, it is propagated to the target
hologram plane and pre-processed by a second CNN to
yield the pre-encoding target hologram prediction
~Htgt-pre
¼ ~atgt-pre~Atgt-preei~ϕtgt-pre
¼ CNNfilter ASM ~Hmid; doffset


exp i 2πdoffset
λ




ð6Þ
where doffset is the signed distance from the midpoint
hologram to the target hologram plane, ~Atgt-pre is the
normalized amplitude, and ~atgt-pre is the scale multiplier.
The second CNN serves as a content-adaptive ﬁlter to
replace the Gaussian blur in AA-DPM. The exponential
phase correction term ensures that the phase after
propagation is still roughly centered at 0 for all color
channels. It is also critical to the success of AA-DPM,
which minimizes phase wrapping. Next, the standard
double phase encoding is applied to obtain a phase-only
hologram
P x; y
ð
Þ ¼
0:5~atgt-preei ~ϕtgt-pre x; y
ð
Þ  cos1 ~Atgt-pre x; y
ð
Þ
ð
Þ; x þ y is odd
0:5~atgt-preei ~ϕtgt-pre x; y
ð
Þ þ cos1 ~Atgt-pre x; y
ð
Þ
ð
Þ; x þ y is even
(
ð7Þ
and no pre-blurring is applied in contrast to AA-DPM.
Third, the phase-only hologram is ﬁltered in the Fourier
space to obtain the post-encoding target hologram
prediction
~Htgt-post ¼ F 1ðFðPÞ  MFourierÞ
ð8Þ
where MFourier models a circular aperture in the Fourier
plane
MFourier x; y
ð
Þ ¼
1; x2 þ y2  r2
0; x2 þ y2 > r2

ð9Þ
Here, r is the radius of the aperture in the pixel space. We
set it to half of the image resolution, letting the entire
ﬁrst-order diffraction pass through the physical aperture.
Finally, the post-encoding target hologram prediction is
propagated back to yield the post-encoding midpoint
hologram
~Hmid-post ¼ ASMð ~Htgt-post;  doffsetÞ
ð10Þ
By appending these operations, the second stage unsu-
pervised training ﬁne-tunes the CNN prediction using the
dynamic focal stack loss calculated between the post-
encoding midpoint hologram and the ground truth
midpoint hologram, plus a regularization loss on the
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 6 of 18

===== PAGE 7 =====
pre-encoding target hologram phase
ltgt-pre ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
P eϕtgt-pre  eϕtgt-pre

	2
RxRy
v
u
u
u
t
þ eϕtgt-pre
ð11Þ
where  denotes the mean operation. The regularization
loss encourages the pre-encoding target hologram phase
to be zero mean and exhibit a small standard deviation.
This term minimizes phase wrapping during the double
phase encoding, which may not affect the simulated image
quality but degrade the experimental result. Without this
loss, the unregulated phase exhibits a large standard
deviation and shifts away from zero mean, leading to non-
negligible phase wrapping, especially when the maximum
phase modulation is limited to 2π.
In the second training stage, direct supervision from the
ground truth midpoint hologram is intentionally ablated.
TensorHolo v2
RGB-D
TensorHolo v1
In-focus
Out-of-focus
TensorHolo v2
RGB-D
TensorHolo v1
25.95 dB
0.910
42.19 dB
0.995
42.81 dB
0.994
31.36 dB
0.932
Ground truth
TensorHolo v1
TensorHolo v2 RGB-D
TensorHolo v2 LDIs
a
b
33.13 dB
0.940
40.87 dB
0.993
42.20 dB
0.994
37.45 dB
0.985
37.70 dB
0.986
Fig. 4 Performance evaluation of TensorHolo v1, TensorHolo v2-RGB-D, and TensorHolo v2-LDIs. a Comparison of 3D holograms for
computer-rendered scenes. The yellow inset marks the region of interest. b Comparison of 3D holograms for real-world captured scenes
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 7 of 18

===== PAGE 8 =====
This expands the solution space by allowing the CNNs to
freely explore the neural ﬁltering to optimally match the
ground truth focal stack, which a user ultimately sees. It
also facilitates regularization on the pre-encoding target
hologram phase to better handle hardware limitations
(i.e., limited range of phase modulation). In practice, the
resulting prediction of the post-midpoint hologram phase
visually differs from the ground truth as high-frequency
details are attenuated or altered in a spatially-varying and
content-adaptive manner to avoid speckle noise. With
direct supervision that encourages retention of high-
frequency details, we ﬁnd it negatively impacts speckle
elimination.
Collectively, the proposed two-stage training ﬁrst excels
at reproducing the ground truth complex 3D holograms
at all levels of detail, then ﬁne-tunes a display-speciﬁc
CNN for fully automatic speckle-free 3D phase-only
hologram synthesis. The second training stage takes fewer
iterations to converge; therefore, it is efﬁcient to optimize
multiple CNNs for different display conﬁgurations upon
the completion of the ﬁrst training stage. The training
process is detailed in “Methods”.
Simulation and experimental veriﬁcation
We qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate Tensor-
Holo V2 CNNs in simulation. Figure 4 compares the
depth-of-ﬁeld images reconstructed by the complex
hologram prediction of the V1 CNN, the V2 CNNs Stage
1, and the ground truth. The rendered LDIs and real-
world captured RGB-D inputs can be found in “Methods”.
The V2 RGBD-CNN largely removes the artifacts at the
occlusion boundaries, compensates the missing wavefront
with a plausible estimation of the occluded pixels, and is
robust to depth misalignment in the real-world captured
inputs (see Fig. 4b). When the foreground of the depth
boundary has extraordinary pixels, such as the specular
white dot in the yellow inset of the frog scene (see Fig. 4a,
Row 2 Column 3), the V2 RGBD-CNN can mis-
extrapolate the occlusion and produce an inaccurately
defocused background. The V2 LDI-CNN eliminates this
error with the LDI input (see Fig. 4a, Row 2 Column 4).
On the challenging validation set, V2 RGBD-CNN and V2
LDI-CNN perform similarly, outperforming the V1 CNN
and Maimone et al. by a large margin (see Table 2).
DDPM robustly performs the phase-only conversion at
detail-rich,
high-frequency,
high-contrast,
and
low-
amplitude regions with full automation (see Fig. 5a and
Supplementary Video 1/2). In all examples, DDPM
simultaneously achieves high resolution and speckle-free
reconstruction. In contrast, AA-DPM and BL-DPM have
to trade between resolution and speckle noise via different
ﬁlter strengths. Beneﬁting from the display-speciﬁc train-
ing, DDPM maintains the image resolution when holo-
gram planes are offset against the 3D volume (see Fig. 5b,
bottom), and the addition of the pre-ﬁltering CNN pre-
serves the image contrast (see the human limbs and per-
petual calendar in Fig. 5b, middle). In opposite, using
AA-DPM with ﬁlter strength optimized for the midpoint
hologram is inadequate and produces ringing artifacts at
distant hologram planes (see Fig. 5b, top). Successful
DDPM training beneﬁts from the regularization loss to
minimize phase wrapping (see Fig. 5c).
A benchtop holographic display is constructed and
calibrated for experimental veriﬁcation (see Fig. 6 for a
schematic visualization and see Methods for hardware
and calibration details). We photographed 3D holograms
of rendered and real-world scenes generated by the V2
RGBD-CNN (see Fig. 7). The hologram planes are offset
differently from the 3D scenes to evaluate the DDPM
performance.
Compared to supplementary video 4 of TensorHolo
V1, the Big Buck Bunny result (see Fig. 7 top and Sup-
plementary Video 3 for continuous 3D refocusing) no
longer present visible dark seams around foreground
objects such as the bunny body and tree vines. The
mansion result (Fig. 7, middle) validates TensorHolo V2’s
robustness to depth misalignment. Unlike Extended Data
Fig. 9 of TensorHolo V1, artifacts on the blue window,
fence, and shrubs are eliminated, and the resulting 3D
image is more naturally defocused. Reconstructed at a
further distance, the boat result (Fig. 7, bottom) repro-
duces smooth color gradients of the wall and the water
surface owing to accurate phase control from a per-pixel
voltage-to-phase look-up table (see Methods for details).
The human and dog in the foreground are absent from
the speckle noise that would otherwise appear if AA-
DPM was used (see Fig. 5b). In all results, the V2 RGBD-
CNN consistently produces realistic depth boundaries
using a single RGB-D input. Supplementary Video 4
demonstrates real-time computation and playback of 3D
holograms calculated for cellphone-captured RGB-D
videos, where the V2 RGBD-CNN robustly handles depth
misalignment.
To demonstrate aberration correction, we place a
cylindrical lens with a focal length of 200 mm in front of
the eyepiece to cause astigmatism (see Fig. 6). The cylinder
Table 2
Methods comparison on the validation set
Methods
PSNR (dB)
SSIM
Maimone et al.14
21.6 (21.3)
0.816 (0.808)
Shi et al.6
23.6 (23.2)
0.830 (0.821)
Ours (RGB-D)
29.4 (28.9)
0.945 (0.942)
Ours (LDI)
29.6 (29.1)
0.947 (0.944)
The unbracketed result is calculated for the amplitude map of the predicted
hologram, the bracketed result is calculated by averaging the results of a focal
stack with 15 most frequent depths and 5 random depths for each image.
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 8 of 18

===== PAGE 9 =====
DPM
DDPM
(/w=1.3/5)
(/w=0.4/5)
BL-
DPM
k=0.1
k=0.5
AA-
DPM
a
b
Phase map (w/ regularization loss)
Double phase encoded(red 
channel, w/ regularization loss)
Phase map
(w/o regularization loss)
Double phase encoded (red 
channel, w/o regularization loss)
c
6mm
12mm
24mm
DDPM
AA-DPM
26.43 dB
0.865
32.00 dB
0.950
30.75 dB
0.949
34.07 dB
0.971
25.48 dB
0.818
30.36 dB
0.940
25.85 dB
0.805
29.62 dB
0.930
31.59 dB
0.935
33.58 dB
0.968
31.54 dB
0.924
33.09 dB
0.966
DDPM w/o prefiltering CNN
29.25 dB
0.931
26.84 dB
0.887
26.00dB
0.874
32.52 dB
0.966
29.96 dB
0.942
29.18dB
0.936
29.18 dB
0.949
28.73 dB
0.949
23.16 dB
0.813
29.04 dB
0.952
23.70 dB
0.835
27.68 dB
0.934
18.97 dB
0.759
26.12 dB
0.917
22.88 dB
0.827
22.17 dB
0.839
21.08 dB
0.735
23.44 dB
0.855
26.32 dB
0.849
35.04 dB
0.978
30.89 dB
0.944
30.71 dB
0.933
29.68 dB
0.925
27.84 dB
0.872
19.91 dB
0.741
27.54 dB
0.891
24.28 dB
0.742
24.34 dB
0.840
23.16 dB
0.682
24.22 dB
0.813
27.96 dB
0.884
32.90 dB
0.966
28.00 dB
0.932
30.78 dB
0.947
28.50 dB
0.930
28.31 dB
0.885
26.19 dB
0.837
39.09 dB
0.989
30.98 dB
0.941
33.10 dB
0.952
28.41 dB
0.884
32.72 dB
0.952
29.33 dB
0.885
30.55 dB
0.941
27.00 dB
0.893
30.66 dB
0.941
26.57 dB
0.870
29.23 dB
0.924
19.39 dB
0.727
26.14 dB
0.913
23.00 dB
0.875
23.01 dB
0.851
23.04 dB
0.823
24.05 dB
0.852
DPM
DDPM
(/w=1.5/5)
(/w=0.6/5)
BL-
DPM
k=0.1
k=0.5
AA-
DPM
DPM
DDPM
(/w=1.2/3)
(/w=0.6/3)
BL-
DPM
k=0.1
k=0.4
AA-
DPM
DPM
DDPM
(/w=1.6/5)
(/w=0.6/5)
BL-
DPM
k=0.1
k=0.4
AA-
DPM
6 mm
12 mm
24 mm
Fig. 5 Performance evaluation of DDPM. a Comparison of simulated reconstruction using DDPM, AA-DPM, and BL-DPM for midpoint hologram. For AA-
DPM and BL-DPM, two ﬁlter strengths are applied: the weaker one results in similar sharpness to DDPM; the stronger one results in an artifact-free image.
b Comparison of simulated reconstruction using DDPM, DDPM (without the pre-ﬁltering CNN), and AA-DPM for target holograms with 6, 12, and 24 mm
offset to midpoint hologram. The AA-DPM ﬁlter strengths used for the boat and the couch scene are (σ = 1.0, w = 5) and (σ = 0.8, w = 3) respectively.
They are the minimal strengths that result in artifact-free images for the midpoint hologram. c Comparison of pre-encoding target hologram phase and its
double-phase encoded phase-only hologram predicted by CNNs trained with and without the regularization loss. The hologram plane is offset by 6 mm
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 9 of 18

===== PAGE 10 =====
axis is placed vertically, causing the originally in-focus
object to primarily exhibiting horizontal blurs. We per-
formed system identiﬁcation (see Methods for details) and
generated an aberration-corrected dataset with 256 (8-bit)
depth levels. The trained network predicts holograms that
compensate for aberration for the random scene in the
validation set (see Fig. 8a), natural scenes, and test patterns
(see Fig. 8b). The captured front focus image in the tree
frog scene closely resembles the simulation of an una-
berrated system in Fig. 5a.
Discussion
Holographic 3D displays provide differentiating inter-
active experiences from cell phones or stereoscopic aug-
mented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) displays.
TensorHolo V2 makes a step towards the end-to-end
synthesis of 3D phase-only holograms. It is fully auto-
matic, robust to rendered and misaligned real-world
inputs, produces realistic depth boundaries, and corrects
vision aberrations. Reusing the minimalistic CNN archi-
tecture in TensorHolo V1, it runs in real-time on a
consumer-grade GPU and 5 FPS on an iPhone 13 Pro (see
“Methods” for runtime performance details), promising
real-time mobile performance for future-generation AR/
VR headsets and glasses.
To produce a more visually engaging 3D experience and
further reduce the computational complexity, many
extensions to the current method are worth investigating.
One is foveation-guided holographic rendering37–40. For
stereoscopic and light-ﬁeld AR/VR displays, foveated
rendering lowers the image quality in the peripheral vision
to reduce rendering cost41–43. In the context of holo-
graphic rendering, a 2D hologram with synthetic blur can
be used for peripheral vision instead of a true 3D holo-
gram. As eye trackers become widely available in next-
generation head-mounted displays, this can be a powerful
computation-only approach to improve the rendering
performance.
Another direction is to support view-dependent effects.
Although an LDI provides sufﬁcient scene information
from one perspective, view-dependent effects are not
explicitly modeled since disoccluded regions or out-of-
view objects will become visible from other views, as well
as occlusion of currently visible points. However, the
current localized 3D experience may be sufﬁcient for
head-mounted displays since holograms can be dynami-
cally updated to reﬂect the changed user’s viewpoint as
the rendering of LDI is efﬁcient. Yet, a hologram that
supports a view-dependent effect is beneﬁcial when fab-
ricating ultra-high-resolution static copies. To design a
scene
representation
sufﬁcient
for
modeling
view-
dependent effect, one could render multiple LDIs from
evenly sampled viewpoints within an arc or a line of view
space, and compact LDIs into a master LDI plus side
information of disocclusion, new occlusion, and out of
view scene through point cloud duplication detection.
One could also replace LDI with recently emerged neural
scene
representation
(i.e.,
NeRF44),
which
uses
a
coordinate-based neural network to memorize the entire
3D volume compactly. For hologram rendering, Zhang
et al.45 showed that Fourier domain segmentation and
stitching of multiple holograms rendered from different
viewports could provide a continuous view-dependent
effect for large baseline movement. Co-designing a
learning-based system to incorporate both new input
representations and new rendering schemes can further
Polarizer
Fiber-coupled laser
Collimating lens
Imaging
lens
Fourier
filter
Translation
stage
Beamsplitter
Cylindrical lens
(optional)
Eyepiece
Camera
Spatial light
modulator (SLM)
Fig. 6 Schematic of the experimental holographic display prototype. The cylindrical lens is used for the aberration-correction experiment (see
Fig. 8). The control box of the laser and Labjack DAQ are not visualized
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 10 of 18

===== PAGE 11 =====
unleash the power of holograms when higher resolution
SLMs become available.
The current system also requires a Fourier ﬁlter to
shield higher-order diffractions for producing a clean
image. Changing the image formation model to model
higher-order diffractions explicitly can potentially remove
the need for optical ﬁltering46 and increase the method
compatibility to enable more ﬂexible display designs.
Meanwhile, the current ground truth focal stack is ren-
dered under the assumption of a coherent imaging model,
the real-world depth of ﬁeld yet follows the incoherent
imaging model. This can create a mismatch of defocus
blur when overlaying virtual objects with real-world
scenes. Using an incoherent rendering model to gen-
erate the target focal stack while matching it under the
constraint of the coherent propagation model may offer a
more realistic 3D perception without breaking holo-
graphy’s principle of operation. This can be further
combined with temporal time-multiplexing to improve
the image quality47.
The current system uses Maimone et al.’s phase initi-
alization
to
suppress
speckle
noise;
however,
the
artiﬁcially-enforced
smooth
phase
distribution
could
computationally constrain the angular spectrum and lead
to reduced eyebox. A potential way to maximize the
eyebox is to add pupil modeling in the Fourier plane
during the unsupervised training stage. Because the pre-
encoding phase is not forced to match the target holo-
gram, the ﬁltering of eccentric pupils can encourage a
broad angular spectrum bandwidth to maintain image
quality for different pupil locations while keeping the
speckle low.
Front focus
Rear focus
0 mm offset
6 mm offset
12 mm offset
Fig. 7 Experimental demonstration of holographic 3D projections. Two computer-rendered (Top/Bottom) and one real-world captured (Middle)
scenes are displayed and photographed for target holograms located at three different distances (marked on the left) to the midpoint hologram. The
yellow box marks the foreground object of interest, and the blue box marks the background object of interest. Readers are encouraged to zoom in to
examine the image details
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 11 of 18

===== PAGE 12 =====
When miniaturizing a holographic display into an
eyeglass-like form factor, one inevitably deals with spatially-
varying optical aberrations14. A successful demonstration of
a learning system that produces aberration-corrected con-
tent for an eyeglass-like prototype will be necessary for
industry adoption of holography.
Finally,
the
proposed
system
provides
a
limited
immersive 3D experience due to the SLM’s low space-
bandwidth product. Consequently, the development of
SLMs with higher pixel density, faster refresh rate, higher
bit depths, and possibly joint amplitude and phase mod-
ulation are imperative. Designing compact combining
optics (i.e., holographic optical element (HoE) lens, geo-
metric phase lens, and waveguides) with less aberration/
more substantial optical power and novel optical path
folding structures are also critical to the success of min-
iaturizing the display form factor48,49.
Materials and methods
Methods comparison for occlusion modeling
We examine methods for occlusion modeling using a
simple test scene consisting of two vertical bars with the
front bar perfectly occluding the lower half of the rear bar
(see Fig. 9, top). We assign different amplitudes to the
front and rear bars and repeat the bar pair horizontally for
visualization. The complete scene is represented by an
LDI with two layers: the ﬁrst layer for the front bar plus
the top half of the rear bar and the second layer for the
bottom half of the rear bar. The rasterized scene is
represented by the LDI’s ﬁrst layer. We tested six pairs of
input and CGH algorithms:
1.
No occlusion: apply the point-based method to the
complete scene.
2.
Occlusion only from input: apply the point-based
method to the rasterized scene.
Aberration-free hologram
Amplitude
Phase
Astigmatism-compensted
hologram (ground truth)
Astigmatism-compensted
hologram (CNN predicted)
a
Front Focus
Rear Focus
30.45 dB
0.956
b
32.37dB
0.956
Captured uncorrected
hologram with astigmatism
Captured astigmatism-corrected
hologram
Fig. 8 Performance evaluation of vision aberration correction. a Top: A hologram calculated for normal vision. Middle: A hologram calculated
using the proposed variant of SM-LBM that corrects a synthetic astigmatic vision induced by a 200 mm cylindrical lens. The calibration method is
detailed in Methods. Bottom: The CNN trained on the astigmatism-corrected dataset jointly performs diffraction simulation and aberration correction.
The PSNR and SSIM of the predicted hologram are marked on the top right corner. b Experimentally captured CNN-predicted holograms of a natural
scene and a test scene without (Left) and with (Right) astigmatism correction. The yellow and the blue box marks the foreground and the
background object of interest, respectively. The in-focus object in the corrected hologram exhibits horizontal blurs in the uncorrected hologram (i.e.,
treefrog’s tentacles, eye reﬂections, tree leaves, and test patterns)
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 12 of 18

===== PAGE 13 =====
3.
Geometric occlusion detection (input+computation):
apply the occlusion-aware point-based method to the
rasterized scene.
4.
Geometric occlusion detection (computation): apply
the occlusion-aware point-based method to the
complete scene.
5.
Wave-based occlusion detection (input+computation):
apply the silhouette-mask layer-based method to the
rasterized scene.
6.
Wave-based occlusion detection (computation): apply
the
silhouette-mask
layer-based
method
to
the
complete scene.
Figure 9 visualizes the result, and we conclude four
types of artifacts:
1.
Leakage of the wavefront from occluded points.
2.
Leakage of the wavefront from visible points.
3.
Loss of wavefront from occluded points.
4.
Inaccurate
wavefront
due
to
geometric
optics
modeling.
Modeling occlusion at the scene representation stage
(setting 2) avoids the type 1 artifact and reduces the input
data size. Applying either type of occlusion detection at
the computation stage (setting 3 or 5) removes the type 2
artifact. If occlusion detection is wave-based (setting 5),
the type 4 artifact is also removed, resulting in an artifact-
free foreground reproduction. However, the type 3 artifact
persists (for setting 2, 3, and 5) due to the loss of occluded
points and their wavefronts, causing loss of amplitude or
attenuation at the background side of the occlusion
boundaries, which are the dominating artifact in Ten-
sorHolo V1. Retaining the complete scene and applying
wave-based occlusion detection (setting 6) avoid all types
of artifacts with the defocus response of the background
bars matching the ones in setting 1. However, this mode
incurs a higher data and computational cost.
Algorithm 1 Depth peeling for LDI rendering.
Front layer
Front depth
Rear layer
Rear depth
Front focus
Rear focus
No occlusion
Occlusion from input
Geometric occlusion
on the complete scene
Geometric occlusion
on the RGB-D scene
Wave-based occlusion
on the complete scene
Wave-based occlusion
on the RGB-D scene
Artifact due to:
Leakage of wavefront from occluded points
Leakage of wavefront from visible points
Loss of wavefront from occluded points
Inaccurate wavefront due to geometric 
optics modeling
Fig. 9 Methods comparison for occlusion modeling. The top 4 images constitute a 2-layer LDI that completely depicts the test scene. Different
types of artifacts are only marked for the front focus images
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 13 of 18

===== PAGE 14 =====
Depth peeling for LDI rendering
Depth peeling is a rendering method originally devel-
oped
for
order-independent
transparency
(https://
developer.download.nvidia.com/assets/gamedev/docs/
OrderIndependentTransparency.pdf), and an LDI is an
intermediate product of the algorithm. To generate a N-
layer LDI, depth peeling runs the rendering pipeline N
times and simultaneously maintains two depth (Z) buf-
fers. One works conventionally, while the other remains a
constant at each rendering pass and sets the minimum
distance at which a fragment can be drawn without being
discarded. For each pass, the previous pass’s conventional
Z-buffer is used as the current minimal Z-buffer so that
the content right behind the previous pass is rendered.
Algorithm 1 outlines the pseudocode of depth peeling.
Details of training and runtime performance of TensorHolo
V2
The CNNs are implemented and trained using Tensor-
Flow 1.15 on an NVIDIA RTX 8000 GPU with Adam
optimizer. The hologram synthesis CNN uses the same
residual network architecture as the V1 CNN, which consists
of 30 convolution layers with 24 3 × 3 kernels per layer (see
ref. 6 for the discussion of design choice). The pre-ﬁltering
CNN uses the same architecture but with only eight con-
volution layers and 8 3 × 3 kernels per layer. The pre-ﬁltering
CNN can be omitted when the target hologram coincides
with the midpoint hologram. The learning rate is 0.0001 with
an exponential decay rate of β1 = 0.9 for the ﬁrst moment
and β1 = 0.99 for the second moment. The ﬁrst stage
training runs for 3000 epochs. The second stage training ﬁrst
pre-trains the pre-ﬁltering CNN 50 epochs for identity
mapping and then 1000 epochs jointly with the hologram
synthesis CNN. The pre-training accelerates the convergence
and yields better results. Both versions of CNN use a batch
size of 2, wdata = 1.0, wpcp = 1.0, wtgt-pre = 0.07, where wdata,
wpcp, wtgt-pre are the weights for the data ﬁdelity loss, the
dynamic focal stack loss, and the regularization loss. Other
parameters remain the same as TensorHolo V1. Table 3 lists
the runtime performance of TensorHolo V2 RGB-D CNNs
on an NVIDIA TITAN RTX GPU and an iPhone 13 Pro.
The rendered LDIs and real-world captured RGB-D inputs
can be found in Fig. 10. In particular, the speed improvement
on the mobile device is following Moore’s law (1.1 to 5 Hz
from iPhone 11 Pro to 13 Pro), which could promise real-
time performance in a horizon of 5 years if this trend con-
tinues. Other dedicated ASICs for CNN, such as Graphcore
IPU, Google TPU, and Groq TSP, may also enable efﬁcient
edge and cloud hologram computation and streaming for
personal entertainment and enterprise devices.
Details of the experimental setup
The setup (see Fig. 6) uses a HOLOEYE PLUTO (VIS-
014) phase-only LCoS with a 1920 × 1080 pixels
resolution and a pixel pitch of 8 um. This SLM provides
a refresh rate of 60 Hz (monochrome) with a bit depth
of 8 bits. The laser is a FISBA RGBeam single-mode
ﬁber-coupled module with three optically aligned laser
diodes at 638, 520, and 450 nm wavelengths. The
diverging beam emitted by the laser is collimated by a
300 mm achromatic doublet (Thorlabs AC254-300-A-
ML) and polarized (Thorlabs LPVISE100-A) to match
the SLM’s function polarization direction. The beam is
directed to the SLM by a beamsplitter (Thorlabs
BSW10R), and the SLM is mounted on a linear trans-
lation stage (Thorlabs XRN25P/M). When displaying
holograms with different relative positions to the 3D
volumes, we adjust the linear translation stage to keep
the position of 3D volumes stationary and thus avoid
modifying the following imaging optics. The modulated
wavefront is imaged by a 125 mm achromat (Thorlabs
AC254-125-A-ML) and magniﬁed by a Meade Series
5000 21 mm MWA eyepiece. An aperture is placed at
the Fourier plane to block excessive light diffracted by
the grating structure and higher-order diffractions. A
SONY A7M3 mirrorless full-frame camera paired with a
16−35 mm f/2.8 GM lens is used to photograph the
results. A Labjack U3 USB DAQ is used to send ﬁeld
sequential signals and synchronize the display of color-
matched phase-only holograms.
Compensating hardware imperfection
Hardware imperfection can cause experimental results
to deviate from the idealized simulations23,24. Here we
discuss methods to compensate for three sources of
error: laser source intensity variation as a Gaussian
beam, SLM’s non-linear voltage-to-phase response, and
optical aberrations.
To calibrate the laser source intensity variation, we
substitute the SLM with a diffuser and capture the
reﬂected beam as a scaling map for adjusting the target
amplitude. A 5 × 5 median ﬁlter is applied to the mea-
surements to avoid pepper noise caused by dust on the
optical elements. A Gaussian mixture model can be used
to ﬁt an analytical model of the resulting scaling map if
needed24.
Table 3
Runtime performance of TensorHolo V2 RGB-D
CNNs on GPU and iPhone 13 Pro
30 layers
15 layers
8 layers
NVIDIA TITAN RTX
40 ms
25 ms
17 ms
iPhone 13 Pro
478 ms
297 ms
209 ms
The numbers are reported for the CGH synthesis networks with a different
number of convolution layers. When the target hologram plane offsets from the
midpoint hologram, the addition of the pre-ﬁltering CNN adds 4.8 ms for a
TITAN RTX and 60 ms for an iPhone 13 Pro.
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 14 of 18

===== PAGE 15 =====
Fig. 10 RGB-D and LDI inputs used in this paper. From top to bottom and left to right: ‘Couch’ and ‘Mansion’ from Kim et al.51, a living room
scene from Xiao et al.52, a forest scene from Padmanaban et al.32, ‘Wanderer’ and ‘Tree Creature’ by Daniel Bystedt, ‘PartyTug 6:00AM’ by Ian Hubert,
‘Flower’ from Mildenhall et al.53, ‘Big Buck Bunny’ by (© 2008, Blender Foundation), and ‘MIT-EECS-Logo’ by the authors. ‘Couch’, ‘Mansion’, and
‘Flower’ are real-world captured, and the rest are rendered. ‘Wanderer’ and ‘Tree Creature’ are LDIs and the subsequent layers are visualized at the top
corners. The yellow boxes mark the regions with obvious depth misalignment or inconsistency, the soft leave edges in the depth map of’Flower’ are
not marked
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 15 of 18

===== PAGE 16 =====
For an imprecisely calibrated SLM, the non-linear
voltage-to-phase response can severally reduce display
contrast, especially for double-phase encoded hologram,
since
achieving
deep
black
requires
offsetting
the
checkerboard grating accurately by 1π. In many cases, the
pixel response is also spatially non-uniform; thus, using a
global look-up table is often inadequate (see Fig. 11).
Existing calibration methods operate on the change of
interference fringe offset (interferometry-based) or the
change of near/far-ﬁeld diffraction pattern (diffraction-
based), but they cannot produce a per-pixel look-up table
(LUT)50. We propose a simple calibration procedure that
uses double phase encoding to accomplish this goal.
Speciﬁcally, for every 2-by-2 pixels, we keep the top right
and bottom left pixels at 0 as a reference and increase the
top left and bottom right pixels jointly from 0 to 255.
Without modifying the display layout, we set the camera
focus on the SLM and capture the intensity change for
the entire frame. If the phase modulation range for
the operating wavelength is greater equal than 2π, the
intensity of the captured image will decrease to the
minimum at 1π offset, return to the maximum at 2π
offset, and repeat this pattern for every 2π cycle. Denote
the kth captured image Ik, the absolute angular difference
in the polar coordinate between a reference pixel and an
active pixel set to k is
θkðx; yÞ ¼ 2cos1
ﬃﬃﬃﬃIk
p ðx; yÞ 
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Imin
p
ðx; yÞ
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Imax
p
ðx; yÞ 
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Imin
p
ðx; yÞ


ð12Þ
where Imin(x, y) and Imax(x, y) are the minimal and
maximal intensities measured at a location (x, y) when
sweeping from 0 to 255. Let kmin(x, y) be the frame id
associated with the minimal measurement at (x, y), the
phase difference is given by
ϕk x; y
ð
Þ ¼
θkðx; yÞ; k  kminðx; yÞ
2π  θkðx; yÞ; k > kminðx; yÞ

ð13Þ
Experimentally, we take high-resolution measurements
(24 megapixels) of the SLM response, downsample to the
SLM resolution, perform the calculations above, and ﬁt a
linear generalized additive model (GAM) with monotonic
increasing constraint to obtain a smoothed phase curve
for producing a per-pixel LUT. For simplicity, the LUT is
directly loaded into the GPU memory for fast inference.
To reduce memory consumption, a multi-layer percep-
tron can be learned and applied as a 1 × 1 convolution24.
This in-situ calibration procedure eliminates potential
model mismatch between a separate calibration setup and
the display setup. The ability to accurately address phase
differences results in more accurate color reproduction,
i.e., producing deep black by accurately addressing 1π
phase offset (see Fig. 11).
The optical aberrations are corrected using a variant of
Maimone et al.14. Let ϕ0
d 2 CRx ´ Ry (zero-padded to the
frame resolution) be an ideal sub-hologram that focus
plane wave to a signed distance d; we similarly use 5
Zernike polynomials:
Z3 ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ a3d 2ρ2  1


focus
ð14Þ
Z4 ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ a4d ρ2 cos 2θ


vertical astigmatism
ð15Þ
Z5 ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ a5d ρ2 sin 2θ


oblique astigmatism
ð16Þ
Z6 ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ a6d
3ρ2  2


ρ cos θ


horizontal coma
ð17Þ
Z7 ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ a7d
3ρ2  2


ρ sin θ


vertical coma
ð18Þ
ϕd ρ; θ
ð
Þ ¼ ϕ0
d ρ; θ
ð
Þe
iP
j
Zj ρ;θ
ð
Þ
ð
Þ
corrected sub  hologram
ð19Þ
to model system aberrations, where ajd are Zernike
coefﬁcients, ρ is the normalized polar radius, and θ is
the azimuthal angle. We perform a user calibration to
adjust coefﬁcients ajd until the camera images a tightly
focused spot at d from the corrected sub-hologram ϕd.
Once the calibration completes, we propagate ϕd to its
focal plane to obtain the point spread function and
compute the corrected amplitude transfer function as
Φd ¼ ATFd ¼ FðPSFdÞ ¼ FðASMðϕd; dÞÞ, which we use
in Eq. (5) to perform frequency-domain aberration
correction for the occlusion-processed layer. Note that
Factory-provided global lookup table Calibrated per-pixel lookup table
Color mapped
Color mapped
Fig. 11 Black modulation test using the double phase encoding.
Using the per-pixel lookup table calibrated via the proposed approach
produces a more uniform image with a deeper black level over the
one achieved by the factory-provided global lookup table.
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 16 of 18

===== PAGE 17 =====
this calibration procedure can be performed for different
focal distances, and parameters can be piecewise linearly
interpolated14.
For compact eyeglass-like setups (i.e., Maimone et al.’s
compact AR prototype), the same procedure can be followed
by determining the unmagniﬁed image location and the
optical power of the diffractive lens while calibrating the
kernel parameters to correct the system and eye aberrations
jointly. Using a diffractive lens can yet cause strong aberra-
tions that require spatially-varying aberration correction. In
this case, we can calibrate the display at multiple points (i.e.,
15 points) and update the above procedure by convolving a
spatially varying PSFd(x, y) calculated by interpolating the
nearest measured parameters. Note that this operation can
only be performed in the spatial domain but not in the
Fourier domain. However, GPUs can accelerate this process,
and speed is ultimately not critical for dataset generation. On
the learning side, the CNN needs to receive an additional
two-channel image that records the normalized xy coordi-
nates to learn aberration correction in a spatially-varying
manner. While this advanced task is exciting with a clear
solution path, we defer it to future work.
Acknowledgements
We thank P. Kellnhofer for polishing the manuscript and helpful discussion;
R. White for project administration. We acknowledge funding from the
MIT.nano NCSOFT seed grant.
Author contributions
L.S. conceived the method, developed the software/hardware system,
captured the results, wrote the manuscript, and created the ﬁgures. L.S. and
B.L. performed the pipeline evaluation. B.L. created the supplementary videos.
W.M. supervised the project. All authors reviewed and contributed to the
manuscript.
Data availability
The MIT-CGH-4K-V2 dataset, the pre-trained CNN models, and the code to
evaluate/train the CNN models will be made publicly available on GitHub
Conﬂict of interest
The authors declare no competing interests.
Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary
material available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41377-022-00894-6.
Received: 28 February 2022 Revised: 6 June 2022 Accepted: 14 June 2022
References
1.
Benton, S. A. & Bove, V. M. Jr. Holographic Imaging (Wiley-Interscience, 2008).
2.
Pégard, N. C. et al. Three-dimensional scanless holographic optogenetics with
temporal focusing (3D-SHOT). Nat. Commun. 8, 1228 (2017).
3.
Eybposh, M. H. et al. DeepCGH: 3D computer-generated holography using
deep learning. Opt. Express 28, 26636–26650 (2020).
4.
Reicherter, M. et al. Optical particle trapping with computer-generated
holograms written on a liquid-crystal display. Opt. Lett. 24, 608–610
(1999).
5.
Melde, K. et al. Holograms for acoustics. Nature 537, 518–522 (2016).
6.
Shi, L. et al. Towards real-time photorealistic 3D holography with deep neural
networks. Nature 591, 234–239 (2021).
7.
An, J. et al. Slim-panel holographic video display. Nat. Commun. 11, 5568
(2020).
8.
Zhang, Z. C., You, Z. & Chu, D. P. Fundamentals of phase-only liquid crystal on
silicon (LCOS) devices. Light Sci. Appl. 3, e213 (2014).
9.
Waters, J. P. Holographic image synthesis utilizing theoretical methods. Appl.
Phys. Lett. 9, 405–407 (1966).
10.
Hamann, S. et al. Time-multiplexed light ﬁeld synthesis via factored Wigner
distribution function. Opt. Lett. 43, 599–602 (2018).
11.
Shi, L. et al. Near-eye light ﬁeld holographic rendering with spherical waves for
wide ﬁeld of view interactive 3D computer graphics. ACM Trans. Graph. 36,
236 (2017).
12.
Matsushima, K. & Nakahara, S. Extremely high-deﬁnition full-parallax computer-
generated hologram created by the polygon-based method. Appl. Opt. 48,
H54–H63 (2009).
13.
Matsushima, K. Computer-generated holograms for three-dimensional surface
objects with shade and texture. Appl. Opt. 44, 4607–4614 (2005).
14.
Maimone, A., Georgiou, A. & Kollin, J. S. Holographic near-eye displays for
virtual and augmented reality. ACM Trans. Graph. 36, 85 (2017).
15.
Zhang, H., Cao, L. C. & Jin, G. F. Computer-generated hologram with occlusion
effect using layer-based processing. Appl. Opt. 56, F138–F143 (2017).
16.
Matsushima, K. & Shimobaba, T. Band-limited angular spectrum method for
numerical simulation of free-space propagation in far and near ﬁelds. Opt.
Express 17, 19662–19673 (2009).
17.
Hsueh, C. K. & Sawchuk, A. A. Computer-generated double-phase holograms.
Appl. Opt. 17, 3874–3883 (1978).
18.
Sui, X. et al. Band-limited double-phase method for enhancing image
sharpness in complex modulated computer-generated holograms. Opt.
Express 29, 2597–2612 (2021).
19.
Shechtman, Y. et al. Phase retrieval with application to optical imaging: A
contemporary overview. IEEE Signal Process. Mag. 32, 87–109 (2015).
20.
Zhang, J. et al. 3D computer-generated holography by non-convex optimi-
zation. Optica 4, 1306–1313 (2017).
21.
Chakravarthula, P. et al. Wirtinger holography for near-eye displays. ACM Trans.
Graph. 38, 213 (2019).
22.
Kuo, G. et al. High resolution étendue expansion for holographic displays. ACM
Trans. Graph. 39, 66 (2020).
23.
Chakravarthula, P. et al. Learned hardware-in-the-loop phase retrieval for
holographic near-eye displays. ACM Trans. Graph. 39, 186 (2020).
24.
Peng, Y. F. et al. Neural holography with camera-in-the-loop training. ACM
Trans. Graph. 39, 185 (2020).
25.
Choi, S. et al. Optimizing image quality for holographic near-eye displays with
Michelson Holography. Optica 8, 143–146 (2021).
26.
Kavaklı, K., Urey, H. & Akşit, K. Learned holographic light transport: Invited. Appl.
Opt. 61, B50–B55 (2022).
27.
Choi, S. et al. Neural 3D holography: learning accurate wave propagation
models for 3D holographic virtual and augmented reality displays. ACM Trans.
Graph. 40, 240 (2021).
28.
Horisaki, R., Takagi, R. & Tanida, J. Deep-learning-generated holography. Appl.
Opt. 57, 3859–3863 (2018).
29.
Horisaki, R. et al. Three-dimensional deeply generated holography [Invited].
Appl. Opt. 60, A323–A328 (2021).
30.
Shade, J. et al. Layered depth images. In Proceedings of the 25th Annual
Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques 231–242 (ACM,
New York, 1998).
31.
Hiyama, D. et al. Acceleration of color computer-generated hologram from
RGB–D images using color space conversion. Opt. Commun. 340, 121–125
(2015).
32.
Padmanaban, N., Peng, Y. F. & Wetzstein, G. Holographic near-eye dis-
plays based on overlap-add stereograms. ACM Trans. Graph. 38, 214
(2019).
33.
Ichikawa, T., Yamaguchi, K. & Sakamoto, Y. Realistic expression for full-parallax
computer-generated holograms with the ray-tracing method. Appl. Opt. 52,
A201–A209 (2013).
34.
Matsushima, K., Nakamura, M. & Nakahara, S. Silhouette method for hidden
surface removal in computer holography and its acceleration using the
switch-back technique. Opt. Express 22, 24450–24465 (2014).
35.
Zhang, H. et al. Fully computed holographic stereogram based algorithm for
computer-generated holograms with accurate depth cues. Opt. Express 23,
3901–3913 (2015).
36.
Wang, Z. et al. Image quality assessment: From error visibility to structural
similarity. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 13, 600–612 (2004).
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 17 of 18

===== PAGE 18 =====
37.
Chang, C. L., Cui, W. & Gao, L. Foveated holographic near-eye 3D display. Opt.
Express 28, 1345–1356 (2020).
38.
Cem, A. et al. Foveated near-eye display using computational holography. Sci.
Rep. 10, 14905 (2020).
39.
Chakravarthula, P. et al. Gaze-contingent retinal speckle suppression for
perceptually-matched foveated holographic displays. IEEE Trans. Vis. Computer
Graph. 27, 4194–4203 (2021).
40.
Walton, D. R. et al. Metameric varifocal holograms. In 2022 IEEE Con-
ference on Virtual Reality and 3D User Interfaces (VR) 746–755 (IEEE,
Christchurch, 2022).
41.
Guenter, B. et al. Foveated 3D graphics. ACM Trans. Graph. 31, 164
(2012).
42.
Patney, A. et al. Towards foveated rendering for gaze-tracked virtual reality.
ACM Trans. Graph. 35, 179 (2016).
43.
Sun, Q. et al. Perceptually-guided foveation for light ﬁeld displays. ACM Trans.
Graph. 36, 192 (2017).
44.
Mildenhall, B. et al. NeRF: representing scenes as neural radiance ﬁelds for view
synthesis. In Proceedings of the 16th European Conference on Computer Vision
405–421 (Springer, Glasgow, 2020).
45.
Zhang, H., Cao, L. C. & Jin, G. F. Three-dimensional computer-generated
hologram with Fourier domain segmentation. Opt. Express 27, 11689–11697
(2019).
46.
Gopakumar, M. et al. Unﬁltered holography: Optimizing high diffraction orders
without optical ﬁltering for compact holographic displays. Opt. Lett. 46,
5822–5825 (2021).
47.
Lee, B. et al. High-contrast, speckle-free, true 3D holography via binary CGH
optimization. Sci. Rep. 12, 2811 (2022).
48.
Maimone, A. & Wang, J. R. Holographic optics for thin and lightweight virtual
reality. ACM Trans. Graph. 39, 67 (2020).
49.
Roux, F. S. Geometric phase lens. J. Optical Soc. Am. A 23, 476–482 (2006).
50.
Li, R. J. & Cao, L. C. Progress in phase calibration for liquid crystal spatial light
modulators. Appl. Sci. 9, 2012 (2019).
51.
Kim, C. et al. Scene reconstruction from high spatio-angular resolution light
ﬁelds. ACM Trans. Graph. 32, 73 (2013).
52.
Xiao, L. et al. DeepFocus: Learned image synthesis for computational displays.
ACM Trans. Graph. 37, 200 (2018).
53.
Mildenhall, B. et al. Local light ﬁeld fusion: Practical view synthesis with pre-
scriptive sampling guidelines. ACM Trans. Graph. 38, 29 (2019).
Shi et al. Light: Science & Applications (2022) 11:247 
Page 18 of 18
